1. This chapter introduced the concepts of database systems, relational databases, relational data models, data integrity, and SQL. We learned how to develop database applications using java.
2. The java API for developing Java database applications is called JDBC. JDBC provides Java programmers with a uniform iterface for accessing and manipulating relational databases.
3. The JDBC API consists of classes and interfaces for establishing teh connections wiht databases, sending SQL statements to databases, processing the results of SQL statements and obtaining database metadata.
4. Since a JDBC driver serves as the interface to facilitate communications between JDBC and a proprietary database, JDBC drivers are databse specific. If you use a driver, make sure it is in the classpath before running the program.
5. Four key interfaces are needed to develop any database application using Java: Driver, Connection, Statement and ResultSet. These interfaces define a framework for generic SQL database SQL. The JDBC driver vendors provide implementation for them.
6. A JDBC application loads an appropriate driver using the Driver interface, connects to the database using Connetion interface, creates a SQL statements using the Statement inteface, and the processes the results using the ResultSet interface if the statements returns the results.
7. The PreparedStatement interface is designed to execute dynamic SQL statements with parameters. These SQL statements are precompiled for efficient use when repeatedly executed.
8. Database metadata is information that describes the database itself. JDBC provides the DatabaseMetaData interface for obtaining database-wide information and the ResultSetMetaData interface for obtaining information on the specific ResultSet.